now these are the nations which the Lord
left that he might test Israel by them
that is all who had not known any of the
wars in Canaan this was only so that the
generations of the children of Israel
might be taught to know war at least
those who were not formally known it
namely five Lords of the Philistines all
the Canaanites the sidonians and the
high vice who dwelt in Mount Lebanon
from Mount Bale Herman to the entrance
of Haman and they were left that he
might test Israel by them to know
whether they would obey the commandments
of the Lord which he had commanded their
fathers by the hand of Moses thus the
children of Israel dwelt among the
Canaanites the Hittites the amorite s--
the parasites the highlights and the
Jebusites and they took their daughters
to be their wives and gave their
daughters to their sons and they served
their gods
so the children of Israel did evil in
the sight of the Lord
they forgot the Lord their God and
served the bails and a Shearer's
therefore the anger of the Lord was hot
against Israel and he sold them into the
hand of Kushan Risha Feyen
king of mesopotamia and the children of
israel served Kushan Risha theam eight
years when the children of Israel cried
out to the Lord the Lord raised up a
deliverer for the children of Israel who
delivered them earth kneel the son of
kinas Caleb's younger brother
the Spirit of the Lord came upon him and
he judged Israel he went out to war and
the Lord delivered Kushan Risha theam
king of Mesopotamia into his hand and
his hand prevail over Kushan Risha fame
so the land had rest for 40 years then
earth knew the son of kinas died
and the children of Israel again did
evil in the sight of the Lord so the
Lord strengthened Eglon king of Moab
against Israel because they had done
evil in the sight of the Lord then he
gathered to himself the people of ammon
and amalek went and defeated Israel and
took possession of the City of Palms so
the children of Israel served Eglon king
of Moab 18 years but when the children
of Israel cried out to the Lord
the Lord raised up a deliverer for them
he had the son of Gera the Benjamite a
left-handed man by him the children of
Israel sent tribute to Eglon king of
Moab now he heard made himself a dagger
it was doubled edge and a cubit in
length and fastened it under his clothes
on his right thigh so he brought the
tribute to Eglon king of Moab
now egg was a very fat man and when he
had finished presenting the tribute he
sent away the people who had carried the
tribute but he himself turned back from
the stone images there were at Gilgal I
have a secret message for you O king
keep silence
and all who attended him went out from
him so he had came to him now he was
sitting upstairs in his cool private
chamber I have a message from God for
you so he arose from his seat then he
had reached with his left hand took the
dagger from his right thigh and thrust
it into his belly evil must guilt went
in after the blade and the fact closed
over the blame for he did not draw the
dagger out of his belly and his entrails
came out then he had went out through
the porch and shut the doors of the
after room behind him and locked them
when he had gone act
Eggland's servants came to look and to
their surprise as the doors of the upper
room were loved
so they said he is probably attending to
his needs in the cool chamber so they
waited till they were embarrassed and
still he had not opened the doors of the
upper room they took the key and open
there was their master fallen dead on
the floor but he had had escaped while
they delayed he passed beyond the stone
images and escaped to serie and it
happened when he arrived that he blew
the trumpet in the mountains of Ephraim
children of Israel went down with him
from the mountains and he led them then
he said to him follow me for the Lord
has delivered your enemies the Moabites
into your
and so they went down after him seized
the Fords of the Jordan leading to Moab
and did not allow anyone to cross over
and at that time they killed about ten
thousand men of my all stout men of
valor not a man escaped so Moab was
subdued that day under the hand of
Israel and the land had rest for 80
years after him were Shanga the son of
amos who killed six hundred men of the
philistines with an ox goad and he also
delivered Israel
[Music]